Let's talk a bit about maximum likelihood estimator.
So we have been talking about in the previous lecture that we have to find a better parent leaders such
as B to zero B to one in order to feed the logistic regression model.
There are several ways to find these optimal parameters but usually the maximum likelihood method is
used.
OK so this is a method of estimating the parameters what parameters that beat up have in meters of a
statistical model.
So in this case the statistical model is logistic regression.
A given observation by finding the parameter values that maximize the likelihood of making the observations
given the pairing meters.
So we just need a data set.
In our example we are going to use this credit data Dotsie as we as you can see there are lots of lots
of samples.
Concerning the income age loan loan to income ratio and whether they given the client has defaulted
or not.
So that target of triable is going to be the default rate is 0 and 1 avail us.
So it is a binary classification problem.
The output can be 0 or 1 0 if the client has defaulted and not able to pay back the loan.
And one if the client is able to pay back the loan.
OK so first we have to construct the so-called likelihood function this likelihood function or we'll
have the BD paramita earth and the x values.
What about the x values the x values are the balance on the credit card or age gender demographics loan
to income ratio and so on.
So these are the x values and of course we have to be the perimeter as we are after.
Okay by the way we use the logarithm of the likelihood function which is called the log likelihood function
because it is much more easier to optimize the logarithm of the likelihood function instead of dealing
with the likelihood function exclusively.
Okay so the aim is the same as we have seen for linear regression.
We are after the optimal bead of values that maximize the likelihood function.
So we are after the are the max as far as the Beatles are concerned for the likelihood function and
we are after these optimal better parameters.
Okay by the way we dont have to know about maximum likelihood method because it is going to do everything
for us.
We will see during the implementation that using logistic regression and fitting the model with maximum
likelihood method is quite easy.
So the likelihood function as far as logistic regression is concerned is something like this.
We have to deal with the p values.
What about these p values.
We just have to use the sigmoid function as we have discussed in the previous lecture one divided by
one plus each to the power of minus X transpose time in B.
Basically we are able to express this formula.
So between 0 plus a B to 1 times X1 applause B two times 2 up to beat and times X and we are able to
use this formula instead x y prime time is the beat of values.
OK but it is the same.
So this estimate is usually obtained by using the iterative algorithm Muto Rosseau math.
We the map of this numerical method we are able to find the extremum of a given function.
In this case we would like to maximize the likelihood function.
Ok so this is what's happening under the hood.
But Skateland is going to do everything for us.
Thanks for watching.